it's been a while since I spoke about
any Gita's related stuff on the channel
and I've been meaning to talk about the
pins aka the stuff that starred the
mystery to begin with I'm glad I waited
before making the video though because
recently there's been a big development
regarding the pins
specifically the Zoltan pin and if you
have no idea what I'm talking about you
should probably watch my other videos on
Gita's first but if you don't feel like
it here's a summary in 2017 while
shopping for pins online a comedian
named Nate fernell discovered character
named Edith
he took the twitter to try and figure
out where it came from at that point a
sticker sheet containing Geddes and some
other characters was discovered one such
character being Zoltan of which another
pin would emerge ultimately it was found
that the sticker sheet including Geddes
was created by the original GI Joe
artist Samba true chief for the company
Dennison
however Dennison did not produce the
pins which means that we still have no
idea where the pins came from and that
brings us to today before I get into the
update I want to shout out the sponsor
of this video this video was sponsored
by Rey Khan I've been using my wireless
rake on earbuds constantly almost every
day since I got them they sound great
they're comfortable and they stay
connected to my phone consistently I
don't have you know that the one and
only Melissa Etheridge is completely
obsessed with Rey con earbuds they
started about half the price of any
other premium earbuds on the market and
they sound just as amazing as any other
top audio brands you know their latest
model the everyday e25 is their best one
yet with six hours of playtime seamless
bluetooth pairing more bass and a more
compact design that gives you a nice
noise isolating fit it also comes at new
fun colors just click the link in my
description to get 15% off your order
the discovery of the Zoltan Finn has
been an interesting wrinkle on the whole
Geeta story especially considering that
the Geeta spin is what started the whole
thing off and we still don't know where
that thing came from since the original
discovery a number of similar pins have
emerged
including the infamous Tami who was
posted in response to nate fern all's
original Gita's discovery but what makes
Zoltan a bit more interesting than any
of the other similar pins found is that
Zoltan is another character from the
same sticker sheet as Gita's but that
being said the circumstances around the
Zoltan paint have always been a little
suspect the Zoltan pin first drew
widespread attention when eight Fernau
who originally discovered the Gita spin
did an AMA on our / Gita's there's one
thing that the group seems not to have
found yet unless it's buried so deep I
couldn't find it
I believed it to be a hoax but who knows
so after the initial Gita's burst a
friend of mine sent me a link to a sold
auction for a result and pin I didn't
tell anybody about it at the time
because I was hoping to find one of my
own but the whole thing is incredibly
fishy here's the link to the old auction
I messaged the seller but got no
response their user image is Tammy and
it looks like it's the only item they
have ever sold
despite their handle being pin Zeller
guy there also isn't any feedback left
for buyers only sellers haven't been
able to find any more info on it and
have never seen another one listed oh
and here's a pic something feels off
about it but I don't know it messed me
up pretty hard when I saw and neat
wasn't the only one who was suspicious
about the Zoltan pin some people
suspected that maybe the image of the
pin itself was photoshopped
others thought it was real but pointed
to the difference between the Zoltan pin
and the Gita spin a redditor named
silver dude made this graphic comparing
in particular the Gita spin has a soft
glossy coat while the Zoltan pin does it
an addition the fonts used are slightly
different
bueno this is all circumstantial and
there is no real way to debunk it and
with the Gita's pin existing in such a
vacuum there's no reason to discard the
spin outright and have it not be a part
of Gita's lore then on April Fool's Day
of 2020 a pin company named PSA press
puts this out on Instagram they're
giving away one of these mystery pins
with every
order wonder what it could be then a
week later they come clean through the
offer they had given away a hundred
Zoltan pins and now they're selling the
rest of their stock and on their website
they told the story of how the Zoltan
pin came to be manufactured in 2017 and
released on the occasion of April Fool's
Day 2020 the majority of the Zoltan pins
were given away for free via Instagram
on 4 1 2020 in August of 2017 we've read
an atlas obscure article about a vintage
pin of a brown creature with the name
Gita's underneath this discovery led to
a great mystery an internet sleuth
realized that the creature depicted in
the pin was from a 1981 sticker sheet
entitled the land of taw that featured
more characters
what is Geddes what is the land of taw
who made the kita spin are there any
other land of taw character pins we are
instantly hooked on the mystery in 2017
we designed and manufactured assault
tenpin and tried as hard as we could to
make it look vintage Zoltan is another
character included in the land of toss
sticker sheet that included Geddes the
PSA and PSA Press stands for public
service announcement but we included an
Easter Egg on the back of the pin with
the creation of a new company for this
release the pin Society of America we
purposefully manufacture them so there
would be coloring consistencies from pin
to pin for example some have red Mouse
some have green some have enamel in the
armbands and some have been left empty
to expose the gold medal some have a
full epoxy coating and some have areas
that were left empty we commonly use
muted colors and intentional flaws and
other vintage style pins that we design
vintage pins are not designed well by
modern standards and have flaws which is
something we love and try to embrace
since 2017 we have been seeding Zoltan
pins all across the country by donating
them to various thrift stores street
vendors posting an eBay listing of a
scuffed up pin etc in order to encourage
the discovery of the pin also thanks to
our Instagram followers we were able to
procure a vintage Gita's pin for our
collection
since then the story exploded and the
result is a dedicated subreddit bar
slash edith's and is over 15,000 members
dedicated to exploring the mystery
because of this community some great
findings have been made including the
discovery of the artist who originally
drew the artwork used for the 1981
sticker sheet and the birth of Geetha /
Zoltan we figured April Fool's Day 2020
was a good time to spill our beans
special thanks to Nate furnald Atlas
obscura endless thread and of course the
entire r / vedas community for creating
and researching one of the best internet
mysteries of all time and certainly one
of the best stories and pinning
collecting of the past few years and
granted anybody could just say all this
to sell a pin right but the story adds
up although the geeta story picked up a
lot of momentum this past year and
because of that a lot of people tried
producing their own beetus merchandise
remember that neat fern outsole this pin
all the way back in 2017 a time frame
that lines up with someone seeing the
Atlas obscura article and if you still
have any doubts this is definitely the
company behind the original zoltn pin
as it turns out a few months ago a
redditor actually caught them red-handed
you see back in September PS a press had
posted a picture of the Gita's pin they
spoke about in this article a redditor
named bush dwelling Cleef noticed
something the background behind this
Gita's pin was the exact same background
behind the infamous Zoltan picture so he
messaged them do you know anything about
the Zoltan pin I only asked because your
picture of the Gita's pin is on the
exact same backdrop as the only known
pick of the Zoltan ten while we have
seen the Zoltan pin but yeah we don't
know it's up I keep my pins on cardboard
in court board
so basically Bush dwelling queef blew
this case wide open but he would not be
vindicated for several months but PSA
press are being good sports and they're
sending him a free Zoltan pin in
exchange for figuring this out months
before anybody else did and thus the
mystery of the Zoltan pin it's all just
a red herring in degree
ETA's mystery one that in a way leaves
us with more questions than answers was
Jesus the only land of tall character to
have a pin made back in the day and if
so how and why we still have no idea but
anyway that's all for now if you liked
this video check out my video about the
missing farm game my dear
[Applause]